Before we go any further,
I wanna talk a little bit about mutation.
So, I don't know folks who
are fans of the X-Men series,
but yeah, grew up on this cartoon.
Anywho, so just like in X-Men, some
things in the world can be mutated and
some things are just
regular humans like us.
So, in JavaScript certain
values behave differently than
certain other values that
we might think are similar.
So earlier we talked about
arrays versus strings.
They have some stuff in common, like you
can use similar syntax to talk to them.
But they're also different
in important ways.
So, question for
y'all do these do the same thing?
Let's talk about it.
So in the first example,
I am on the first line, well,
let's review concepts from yesterday.
What am I doing in the first
line of this abcArray example?
Can we just restate it using some of
the vocabulary we learned from yesterday.
How about Paul can you just walk me
through what is this first line let
abcArray do?
>> You are declaring
a variable abc array and
you're assigning the array
abc to that variable.
>> Beautiful, thanks.
So, in line one we are declaring and
assigning a variable abcArray.
How about in line two?
We kind of already saw this.
So let's see Jason,
can you walk me through what we're
doing in the second line, abcArray one?
>> Yep, so we're focusing on
the second element in the array,
which is b and
we're assigning a new value to that d.
So the new array would be adc
>> Right, okay and then on the third line,
I'm just asking for
what is the value of the new array?
No, yes, exactly, and it's going to
hopefully because of the second line,
it's going to be adc.
So let's find out.
Go back to our console and I'm just
gonna execute these one at a time.
Okay, all right and now if I ask for
abcArray it is indeed adc.
So what that second line did
that abcArray one equals d is,
as we said before it replaced
that middle value in the array.
Well, in this case it's the middle value.
The value at index one in the array,
we reassigned that spot in
the array to a new value.
Okay, now how about in
the second example abcString.
So similarly in the first line,
we're declaring a variable,
we're assigning it a value and
in quotes "abc".
This is a value of type String, right?
Now what do you think
happened in the second line?
What do you think it's gonna do, guesses?
This abcString, bracket 1 = d.
>> adc.
>> You think it's gonna replace?
>> The b with the d.
>> Replace the b so
we would then end up with a string adc.
Okay, that's one guess, any other guesses?
Let's find out.
Okay, so now I'm gonna declare abcString.
Okay, and now I'm gonna run
abcString 1 = d in the console.
And it's gonna say, okay,
you asked me to do something with these,
so this whole thing
evaluated to the value d.
But now if I asked for abcString, sorry,
that's abcArray,
abcString it is still abc.
So that line abcString 1 = d
actually didn't do anything.
It just evaluated to the value d and
it didn't throw any kind of error or
anything because JavaScript is so
loosey goosey.
That sometimes when we ask it to do
something that makes no sense or
that it can't do.
It just says no, I'm just gonna ignore
you, I'm just gonna keep going and
not tell you anything about the fact that
the thing you thought you were trying to
do didn't actually happen.
So JavaScript did not do anything to the
abcString value, what is going on here.
So what we have here is a difference
between what we call mutable data and
immutable data.
So mutable, basically means
can be mutated can be changed.
And arrays in JavaScript
are the type of data that we can
change as we go along in our program.
So if we wanna swap out one
of the elements, no problem,
if we wanna add elements on with our push,
spell,
no problem if we want to pop elements off,
no problem.
We can change the value of the array
over time in our programme, so
the array is mutable, or
arrays in general are mutable.
However, strings and
other primitive types like Boolean or
numbers are immutable in JavaScript.
Meaning they cannot be mutated they are
resistant to radioactive spider bites and
whatever else we throw at them.
They are am mixing my
Marvel metaphors here.
But they are essentially values that once
JavaScript has conjured up the string abc,
that string abc is always
going to be the string abc.
I can't mess with it the way
that I can mess with an array